README.md, before:

# RESTful API with Spring MVC

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-import/tree/master) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer)


This project is an example implementation of a RESTful API in Java using the Spring MVC framework. 
The actions implemented are a couple of import functions. There's one endpoint exposed in POST that accepts two different content-type headers; text/plain for a single line import, or multipart/form-data for a CSV file import.

Both the single line and the file must be in the following format:

```
VF1KMS40A36042123,KB,H1,RENAULT
```

## Getting Started

Clone this project and run the application with gradle, using gradle wrapper:

```
gradlew bootRun
```

or your own gradle installation

```
gradle bootRun
```

### Prerequisites

You'll need Java JDK 1.8+ installed. Gradle is not necessary because gradlew wrapper is provided with the project as described above.

To check for bugs and be able to browse them locally you have to download Spotbugs from http://spotbugs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing.html. Download it in zip format, then launch the spotbugs executable that is found inside the _bin_ folder. Once the application is running, you can go to `File > Open` and select the findbugs report file (.xml) generally inside _${project_root}/build/reports/spotbugs/main.xml_


## Available endpoints

### `POST /carinfo` to import carinfo data. It can be called with two different content types. `text/plain` or `multipart/form-data`

#### `text/plain` example

```
## Import a single CSV line
curl -X "POST" "http://localhost:8080/carinfo" \
     -H 'Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8' \
     -d "VF1KMS40A36042123,KB,H1,RENAULT"
```

the expected HTTP result is as follows

```
HTTP/1.1 201 
Location: http://localhost:8080/carinfo/3
Content-Length: 0
Date: Sun, 24 Jun 2018 13:09:51 GMT
Connection: close
```

returning a **Location** header that points at the newly created resource.

## Running the tests

The tests are run easily with the gradle task

```
gradlew test
```

For a better reporting there is another gradle task available which runs the tests and aferwards ccreates the reports in `jacoco` xml format. This task also runs `spotbugs`. To have a browsable report from `Jacoco` you need to edit the build file `build.gradle` from this

```groovy
jacocoTestReport {
	reports {
		xml.enabled true
		csv.enabled false
		html.enabled = false
		//html.destination file("${buildDir}/jacocoHtml")
	}
}
```

to this

```groovy
jacocoTestReport {
	reports {
		xml.enabled false
		csv.enabled false
		html.enabled = true
	}
}
```

To have tests run and reports generated, execute the following gradle task:

```
gradlew check
```

## Deployment

Application is deployed to Heroku at https://restful-cmp.herokuapp.com/companies

## Authentication

A suggested authentication method between the client(s) and this backend server would be two-legged OAuth 2.0.

_As described in this image_
![2-legged OAuth 2.0](http://codehustler.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/2_legged_oauth_1.png)

## Built With

* [Spring MVC](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/web.html) - The web framework used
* [Gradle](https://gradle.org) - Dependency Management
* [JUnit 4.12](https://junit.org/junit4/) - Testing Framework
* [JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/trunk/index.html) - Java Code Coverage
* [CodeCov](https://codecov.io/) - JaCoCo integration tool for GitHub
* [CircleCI](https://circleci.com) - Continuous Integration for GitHub

## Authors

* **Eni Sinanaj** - *Initial work*

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL 3.0 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

Added tests and file upload service

README.md, after:

# RESTful API with Spring MVC

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-import/tree/master) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/enisinanaj/carinfo-importer)


This project is an example implementation of a RESTful API in Java using the Spring MVC framework. 
The actions implemented are a couple of import functions. There's one endpoint exposed in POST that accepts two different content-type headers; text/plain for a single line import, or multipart/form-data for a CSV file import.

Both the single line and the file must be in the following format:

```
VF1KMS40A36042123,KB,H1,RENAULT
```

## Getting Started

Clone this project and run the application with gradle, using gradle wrapper:

```
gradlew bootRun
```

or your own gradle installation

```
gradle bootRun
```

### Prerequisites

You'll need Java JDK 1.8+ installed. Gradle is not necessary because gradlew wrapper is provided with the project as described above.

To check for bugs and be able to browse them locally you have to download Spotbugs from http://spotbugs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installing.html. Download it in zip format, then launch the spotbugs executable that is found inside the _bin_ folder. Once the application is running, you can go to `File > Open` and select the findbugs report file (.xml) generally inside _${project_root}/build/reports/spotbugs/main.xml_


## Available endpoints

### `POST /carinfo` to import carinfo data. It can be called with two different content types. `text/plain` or `multipart/form-data`

#### `text/plain` example

```
## Import a single CSV line
curl -X "POST" "http://localhost:8080/carinfo" \
     -H 'Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8' \
     -d "VF1KMS40A36042123,KB,H1,RENAULT"
```

the expected HTTP result is as follows

```
HTTP/1.1 201 
Location: http://localhost:8080/carinfo/3
Content-Length: 0
Date: Sun, 24 Jun 2018 13:09:51 GMT
Connection: close
```

> returning a **Location** header that points at the newly created resource. In case of a file upload and multiple imports It's returning the **Location** of all the car info elements.


#### `multipart/form-data` example

```
## Request
curl -X "POST" "http://localhost:8080/carinfo" \
     -H 'Content-Type: multipart/form-data; charset=utf-8; boundary=__X_PAW_BOUNDARY__' \
     -F "file=VF1KMS40A36042123,KB,H1,RENAULT
SHSRE67507U001669,KB,H1,HONDA
JHMBE17407S200596,KB,H3,HONDA
VF36ERFJC21545586,KB,H1,PEUGEOT
VF3LB9HCGES022011,VA,H1,PEUGEOT
WVWZZZ9NZ7Y062120,VA,H3,VW
WF0WXXGCDW6R41261,VA,H1,FORD
WVWZZZ3CZEE062520,VA,H2,VOLKSWAGEN"
```

## Running the tests

The tests are run easily with the gradle task

```
gradlew test
```

For a better reporting there is another gradle task available which runs the tests and aferwards ccreates the reports in `jacoco` xml format. This task also runs `spotbugs`. To have a browsable report from `Jacoco` you need to edit the build file `build.gradle` from this

```groovy
jacocoTestReport {
	reports {
		xml.enabled true
		csv.enabled false
		html.enabled = false
		//html.destination file("${buildDir}/jacocoHtml")
	}
}
```

to this

```groovy
jacocoTestReport {
	reports {
		xml.enabled false
		csv.enabled false
		html.enabled = true
	}
}
```

To have tests run and reports generated, execute the following gradle task:

```
gradlew check
```

## Deployment

Application is deployed to Heroku at https://restful-cmp.herokuapp.com/companies

## Authentication

A suggested authentication method between the client(s) and this backend server would be two-legged OAuth 2.0.

_As described in this image_
![2-legged OAuth 2.0](http://codehustler.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/2_legged_oauth_1.png)

## Built With

* [Spring MVC](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/current/spring-framework-reference/web.html) - The web framework used
* [Gradle](https://gradle.org) - Dependency Management
* [JUnit 4.12](https://junit.org/junit4/) - Testing Framework
* [JaCoCo](https://www.jacoco.org/jacoco/trunk/index.html) - Java Code Coverage
* [CodeCov](https://codecov.io/) - JaCoCo integration tool for GitHub
* [CircleCI](https://circleci.com) - Continuous Integration for GitHub

## Authors

* **Eni Sinanaj** - *Initial work*

## License

This project is licensed under the GPL 3.0 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
